cloud: support data service (#12711)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/data-service-get-started.md

---
title: Get Started with Data Service
summary: Learn how to use TiDB Cloud Data Service to access your data with HTTPS requests.
---

# Get Started with Data Service

Data Service (beta) enables you to access TiDB Cloud data via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint and allows you to seamlessly integrate with any application or service that is compatible with HTTPS.

This document introduces how to quickly get started with TiDB Cloud Data Service (beta) by creating a Data App, developing, testing, deploying, and calling an endpoint.

## Before you begin

Before creating a Data App, make sure that you have created a [Serverless Tier](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#serverless-tier-beta) cluster. If you do not have one, follow the steps in [Create a cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md).

## Step 1. Create a Data App

The Data App is a group of endpoints that you can use to access data for a specific application. To create a Data App, perform the following steps:

1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com).

> 2. In the left navigation pane, click <svg width="16" height="16" viewBox="0 -2 20 20" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><path d="M15.8333 7.50002C15.8333 10.7217 13.2217 13.3334 10 13.3334M15.8333 7.50002C15.8333 4.27836 13.2217 1.66669 10 1.66669M15.8333 7.50002H4.16667M10 13.3334C6.77834 13.3334 4.16667 10.7217 4.16667 7.50002M10 13.3334C11.4591 11.736 12.289 9.663 12.3341 7.50002C12.289 5.33704 11.4591 3.26406 10 1.66669M10 13.3334C8.54092 11.736 7.71249 9.663 7.66743 7.50002C7.71249 5.33704 8.54092 3.26406 10 1.66669M10 13.3334V15M4.16667 7.50002C4.16667 4.27836 6.77834 1.66669 10 1.66669M11.6667 16.6667C11.6667 17.5872 10.9205 18.3334 10 18.3334C9.07953 18.3334 8.33333 17.5872 8.33333 16.6667M11.6667 16.6667C11.6667 15.7462 10.9205 15 10 15M11.6667 16.6667H17.5M8.33333 16.6667C8.33333 15.7462 9.07953 15 10 15M8.33333 16.6667H2.5" stroke="#333333" stroke-width="1.5" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round"/></svg> **Data Service**.

Author: 确认界面会修改为 Data Service

After creating a Data App, a default endpoint `New Endpoint` is created for you automatically. You can use the default endpoint to access your TiDB Cloud cluster.

If you want to create a new endpoint, locate the newly created Data App and click **+** **Create Endpoint** on the top of the left pane.

### Configure properties

On the right pane, click the **Properties** tab and set properties for the endpoint, such as:

- **Path**: the unique path of the endpoint that users use to access it. The path should be unique within a Data App and is appended to the service URL of the endpoint.

    - To obtain the service URL of the endpoint, hover your mouse over **SERVICE_URL**. For example, `https://data.tidbcloud.com/api/v1beta/apps/{APP_ID}/endpoint`.
    - Only letters, numbers, and underscores (`_`) are allowed in the path, which must start with a slash (`/`). For example, `/my_endpoint`.

- **Request Method**: the HTTP method of the endpoint. The following methods are supported:

    - `GET`: use this method to query data, such as a `SELECT` statement.
    - `POST`: use this method to insert data, such as an `INSERT` or `CREATE` statement.

> - **Timeout(ms)**: the timeout for the endpoint. The default value is `10000` milliseconds. For more details, see [Configure properties](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md#configure-properties).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Timeout(ms)**: the timeout for the endpoint. It ranges from 1 to 30000. The default value is `10000` milliseconds. For more details, see [Configure properties](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md#configure-properties).
```

> - **Return Maximum Rows**: the maximum number of rows that the endpoint returns. The default value is `2000` rows. For more details, see [Configure properties](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md#configure-properties).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Return Maximum Rows**: the maximum number of rows that the endpoint returns. It ranges from 1 to 2000. The default value is `2000` rows. For more details, see [Configure properties](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md#configure-properties).
```

### Write SQL statements

You can customize SQL statements for the endpoint in the SQL editor, which is the middle pane on the **Data Service** page.

1. Select a cluster.

    On the upper part of the SQL editor, select a cluster from the **Select a cluster** drop-down list. Then, you can view all databases of this cluster in the **Schema** tab on the right pane.

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > If your cluster is not in the **Available** state, you cannot select it in the drop-down list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > Only clusters in the **Available** state are displayed in the drop-down list.
```

2. Select a database.

    On the upper part of the SQL editor, select a database from the **Select a database** drop-down list.

    The database field is optional. If you do not select a database from the drop-down list, you must specify the database in SQL statements. For example, `USE database_name;`.

> 2. Write SQL statements.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Write SQL statements.
```

    In the SQL editor, you can write statements such as table join queries, complex queries, and aggregate functions.

    To define a parameter, you can insert it as a variable placeholder like `${ID}` in the SQL statement. For example, `SELECT * FROM table_name WHERE id = ${ID}`. Then, you can click the **Params** tab on the right pane to change the parameter definition and test values.

    - In the **Definition** section, you can specify whether the parameter is required when a client calls the endpoint, the data type (`STRING`, `NUMBER`, or `BOOLEAN`), and the default value of the parameter.
    - In the **Test Values** section, you can set the test value for a parameter. The test values are used when you run the SQL statements or test the endpoint. If you do not set the test values, the default values are used.
    - For more information, see [Configure parameters](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md#configure-parameters).

> 3. Run SQL statements.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Run SQL statements.
```

4. Click **Done**.

### 2. Get the code example

TiDB Cloud generates code examples to help you call an endpoint. To get the code example, perform the following steps:

1. In the left pane of the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/dataservice) page, click the name of your endpoint, and then click **...** > **Code Example** in the upper-right corner. The **Code Example** dialog box is displayed.

2. In the dialog box, select the environment and language that you want to use to call the endpoint, and then copy the code example.

    An example of the cURL code example is as follows:

    <SimpleTab>
    <div label="Test Environment">

    To call a draft version of the endpoint, you need to add the `endpoint-type: draft` header:

    ```bash
    curl --digest --user '<PUBLIC KEY>:<PRIVATE KEY>' --request GET 'https://data.tidbcloud.com/api/v1beta/app/<AppID>/endpoint/<ENDPOINT_PATH>'\
    --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded'\
    --header 'endpoint-type: draft'
    ```

    </div>

    <div label="Online Environment">

>     To call the current online version of the endpoint, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You must deploy your endpoint first before checking the code example in the online environment.
    
    To call the current online version of the endpoint, use the following command:
```

    ```bash
    curl --digest --user '<PUBLIC KEY>:<PRIVATE KEY>' --request GET 'https://data.tidbcloud.com/api/v1beta/app/<AppID>/endpoint/<ENDPOINT_PATH>'\
    --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded'\
    ```

    </div>
    </SimpleTab>

### 3. Use the code example

Paste the code example in your application and run it. Then, you can get the response of the endpoint.

> - You need to replace the `{PUBLIC KEY}` and `{PRIVATE KEY}` placeholders with your API key.

Author: "An API key contains a public key and a private key"

- If the endpoint contains parameters, specify the parameter values when calling the endpoint.

After calling an endpoint, you can see the response in JSON format. The following is an example:

```json
{
    "code": 200,
    "message": "ok",
    "data": [
        {
            "error_code": 0,
            "error_message": "",
            "sql": "SELECT * FROM t1;",
            "columns": [
                {
                    "col": "id",
                    "data_type": "INT",
                    "nullable": false
                },
                ...
            ],
            "rows": [
                [
                    "1",
                    "a"
                ],
                ...
            ],
            "start_time": "2023-03-01 16:53:08.277",
            "end_time": "2023-03-01 16:53:08.713",
            "execute_time": "436ms",
            "row_count": 1,
            "row_affect": 0,
            "limit": 500,
            "query": "Query OK!"
        }
    ]
}
```

For more information about the response, see [Response of an endpoint](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md#response).

## Learn more

- [Overview](/tidb-cloud/data-service-overview.md)

> - [Manage Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md)
> - [Manage Endpoint](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Manage a Data App](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-data-app.md)
- [Manage an Endpoint](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md)
```

---
title: Get Started with Data Service
summary: Learn how to use TiDB Cloud Data Service to access your data with HTTPS requests.
---

# Get Started with Data Service

Data Service (beta) enables you to access TiDB Cloud data via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint and allows you to seamlessly integrate with any application or service that is compatible with HTTPS.

This document introduces how to quickly get started with TiDB Cloud Data Service (beta) by creating a Data App, developing, testing, deploying, and calling an endpoint.

## Before you begin

Before creating a Data App, make sure that you have created a [Serverless Tier](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#serverless-tier-beta) cluster. If you do not have one, follow the steps in [Create a cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md) to create one.

## Step 1. Create a Data App

The Data App is a group of endpoints that you can use to access data for a specific application. To create a Data App, perform the following steps:

1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com).

> 2. In the left navigation pane, click <svg width="16" height="16" viewBox="0 -2 20 20" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><path d="M15.8333 7.50002C15.8333 10.7217 13.2217 13.3334 10 13.3334M15.8333 7.50002C15.8333 4.27836 13.2217 1.66669 10 1.66669M15.8333 7.50002H4.16667M10 13.3334C6.77834 13.3334 4.16667 10.7217 4.16667 7.50002M10 13.3334C11.4591 11.736 12.289 9.663 12.3341 7.50002C12.289 5.33704 11.4591 3.26406 10 1.66669M10 13.3334C8.54092 11.736 7.71249 9.663 7.66743 7.50002C7.71249 5.33704 8.54092 3.26406 10 1.66669M10 13.3334V15M4.16667 7.50002C4.16667 4.27836 6.77834 1.66669 10 1.66669M11.6667 16.6667C11.6667 17.5872 10.9205 18.3334 10 18.3334C9.07953 18.3334 8.33333 17.5872 8.33333 16.6667M11.6667 16.6667C11.6667 15.7462 10.9205 15 10 15M11.6667 16.6667H17.5M8.33333 16.6667C8.33333 15.7462 9.07953 15 10 15M8.33333 16.6667H2.5" stroke="#333333" stroke-width="1.5" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round"/></svg> **Data Service**.

Author: ```suggestion
2. In the left navigation pane, click <svg width="16" height="16" viewBox="0 -2 24 24" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" stroke-width="1.5"><path d="M14 20C14 21.1046 13.1046 22 12 22C10.8954 22 10 21.1046 10 20M14 20C14 18.8954 13.1046 18 12 18M14 20H21M10 20C10 18.8954 10.8954 18 12 18M10 20H3M12 18V14M21 5C21 6.65685 16.9706 8 12 8C7.02944 8 3 6.65685 3 5M21 5C21 3.34315 16.9706 2 12 2C7.02944 2 3 3.34315 3 5M21 5V11C21 12.66 17 14 12 14M3 5V11C3 12.66 7 14 12 14" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round"></path></svg> **Data Service**.
```

    In the SQL editor, you can write statements such as table join queries, complex queries, and aggregate functions.

    To define a parameter, you can insert it as a variable placeholder like `${ID}` in the SQL statement. For example, `SELECT * FROM table_name WHERE id = ${ID}`. Then, you can click the **Params** tab on the right pane to change the parameter definition and test values.

    - In the **Definition** section, you can specify whether the parameter is required when a client calls the endpoint, the data type (`STRING`, `NUMBER`, or `BOOLEAN`), and the default value of the parameter.
    - In the **Test Values** section, you can set the test value for a parameter. The test values are used when you run the SQL statements or test the endpoint. If you do not set the test values, the default values are used.
    - For more information, see [Configure parameters](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md#configure-parameters).

4. Run SQL statements.

    If you have inserted parameters in the SQL statements, make sure that you have set test values or default values for the parameters in the **Params** tab on the right pane. Otherwise, an error is returned.

>     To run a SQL statement, select the line of the SQL with your cursor and click **Run** > **Run At Cursor**.

Author: ```suggestion
    To run a SQL statement, select the line of the SQL with your cursor and click **Run** > **Run at Cursor**.
```

---
title: Get Started with Data Service
summary: Learn how to use TiDB Cloud Data Service to access your data with HTTPS requests.
---

# Get Started with Data Service

Data Service (beta) enables you to access TiDB Cloud data via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint and allows you to seamlessly integrate with any application or service that is compatible with HTTPS.

> **Tip:**
>

> > TiDB Cloud provides a system Data App called **Chat2Query**. You can use this App to call the Chat2Data endpoint to let AI generate and execute SQL statements by providing instructions. For more information, see [Get started with Chat2Query API](/tidb-cloud/use-chat2query-api.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> TiDB Cloud provides a Chat2Query API. After it is enabled, TiDB Cloud will automatically create a system Data App called **Chat2Query** and a Chat2Data endpoint in Data Service. You can call this endpoint to let AI generate and execute SQL statements by providing instructions. For more information, see [Get started with Chat2Query API](/tidb-cloud/use-chat2query-api.md).
```

This document introduces how to quickly get started with TiDB Cloud Data Service (beta) by creating a Data App, developing, testing, deploying, and calling an endpoint.

## Before you begin

Before creating a Data App, make sure that you have created a [Serverless Tier](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#serverless-tier-beta) cluster. If you do not have one, follow the steps in [Create a cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md) to create one.

## Step 1. Create a Data App

A Data App is a group of endpoints that you can use to access data for a specific application. To create a Data App, perform the following steps:

1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com).

2. In the left navigation pane, click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-left-data-service" /> **Data Service**.

3. On the **Get started by creating your first data application** page, enter a name for the Data App and click **Create Data App**. The [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/dataservice) details page is displayed.

## Step 2. Develop an endpoint

An endpoint is a web API that you can customize to execute SQL statements.

> After creating a Data App, a default endpoint `untitled endpoint` is created for you automatically. You can use the default endpoint to access your TiDB Cloud cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After creating a Data App, a default `untitled endpoint` is created for you automatically. You can use the default endpoint to access your TiDB Cloud cluster.
```

If you want to create a new endpoint, locate the newly created Data App and click **+** **Create Endpoint** on the top of the left pane.

### Configure properties

On the right pane, click the **Properties** tab and set properties for the endpoint, such as:

- **Endpoint Path**: the unique path of the endpoint that users use to access it.

    - The path must be unique within a Data App.
    - Only letters, numbers, underscores (`_`), and slashs (`/`) are allowed in the path, which must start with a slash (`/`). For example, `/my_endpoint/get_id`.
    - The length of the path must be less than 64 characters.

> - **Endpoint URL**: (read-only) the URL is automatically generated based on the service URL of the Data App and the path of the endpoint. For example, if the path of the endpoint is `/my_endpoint/get_id`, the endpoint URL is `https://data.tidbcloud.com/api/v1beta/apps/{APP_ID}/endpoint/my_endpoint/get_id`.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Endpoint URL**: (read-only) the URL is automatically generated based on the service URL of the Data App and the path of the endpoint. For example, if the path of the endpoint is `/my_endpoint/get_id`, the endpoint URL is `https://data.tidbcloud.com/api/v1beta/app/<App ID>/endpoint/my_endpoint/get_id`.
```

## Step 5. Call the endpoint

You can call the endpoint by sending an HTTPS request. Before calling an endpoint, you need to first obtain an API key for the Data App.

### 1. Create an API key

1. In the left pane of the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/dataservice) page, click the name of your Data App to view its details.

2. In the **API Key** area, click **Create API Key**.

3. In the **Create API Key** dialog box, enter a description for your API key, and then click **Next**. The private key and public key are displayed.

    Make sure that you have copied and saved the private key in a secure location. After leaving this page, you will not be able to get the full private key again.

4. Click **Done**.

### 2. Get the code example

TiDB Cloud generates code examples to help you call an endpoint. To get the code example, perform the following steps:

1. In the left pane of the [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/dataservice) page, click the name of your endpoint, and then click **...** > **Code Example** in the upper-right corner. The **Code Example** dialog box is displayed.

> 2. In the dialog box, select the environment and language that you want to use to call the endpoint, and then copy the code example.

Author: ```suggestion
2. In the dialog box, select the environment that you want to use to call the endpoint, and then copy the code example.
```

> 2. In the dialog box, select the environment that you want to use to call the endpoint, and then copy the code example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In the dialog box, select the cluster and database that you want to use to call the endpoint, and then copy the code example.
```

    An example of the curl code example is as follows:

    <SimpleTab>
    <div label="Test Environment">

    To call a draft version of the endpoint, you need to add the `endpoint-type: draft` header:

    ```bash
    curl --digest --user '<PUBLIC KEY>:<PRIVATE KEY>' --request GET 'https://data.tidbcloud.com/api/v1beta/app/<AppID>/endpoint/<ENDPOINT_PATH>'\
    --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded'\
    --header 'endpoint-type: draft'
    ```

    </div>

    <div label="Online Environment">

    You must deploy your endpoint first before checking the code example in the online environment.
    
    To call the current online version of the endpoint, use the following command:

    ```bash
    curl --digest --user '<PUBLIC KEY>:<PRIVATE KEY>' --request GET 'https://data.tidbcloud.com/api/v1beta/app/<AppID>/endpoint/<ENDPOINT_PATH>'\
    --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded'\
    ```

    </div>
    </SimpleTab>

### 3. Use the code example

Paste the code example in your application and run it. Then, you can get the response of the endpoint.

> - You need to replace the `{PUBLIC KEY}` and `{PRIVATE KEY}` placeholders with your API key.

Author: ```suggestion
- You need to replace the `<Public Key>` and `<Private Key>` placeholders with your API key.
```

The Data App is a group of endpoints that you can use to access data for a specific application. To create a Data App, perform the following steps:

1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com).

2. In the left navigation pane, click <svg width="16" height="16" viewBox="0 -2 20 20" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><path d="M15.8333 7.50002C15.8333 10.7217 13.2217 13.3334 10 13.3334M15.8333 7.50002C15.8333 4.27836 13.2217 1.66669 10 1.66669M15.8333 7.50002H4.16667M10 13.3334C6.77834 13.3334 4.16667 10.7217 4.16667 7.50002M10 13.3334C11.4591 11.736 12.289 9.663 12.3341 7.50002C12.289 5.33704 11.4591 3.26406 10 1.66669M10 13.3334C8.54092 11.736 7.71249 9.663 7.66743 7.50002C7.71249 5.33704 8.54092 3.26406 10 1.66669M10 13.3334V15M4.16667 7.50002C4.16667 4.27836 6.77834 1.66669 10 1.66669M11.6667 16.6667C11.6667 17.5872 10.9205 18.3334 10 18.3334C9.07953 18.3334 8.33333 17.5872 8.33333 16.6667M11.6667 16.6667C11.6667 15.7462 10.9205 15 10 15M11.6667 16.6667H17.5M8.33333 16.6667C8.33333 15.7462 9.07953 15 10 15M8.33333 16.6667H2.5" stroke="#333333" stroke-width="1.5" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round"/></svg> **Data Service**.

> 3. On the **Get started by creating your first data application** page, enter a name for the Data App in the **Data App Name** field and click **Create Service**. The [**Data Service**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/dataservice) details page is displayed.

Reviewer 2: change reason: it is quite obvious where to enter the value on the **Get started by creating your first data application** page.

## Step 2. Develop an endpoint

An endpoint is a web API that you can customize to execute SQL statements.

After creating a Data App, a default endpoint `New Endpoint` is created for you automatically. You can use the default endpoint to access your TiDB Cloud cluster.

If you want to create a new endpoint, locate the newly created Data App and click **+** **Create Endpoint** on the top of the left pane.

### Configure properties

On the right pane, click the **Properties** tab and set properties for the endpoint, such as:

- **Path**: the unique path of the endpoint that users use to access it. The path should be unique within a Data App and is appended to the service URL of the endpoint.

    - To obtain the service URL of the endpoint, hover your mouse over **SERVICE_URL**. For example, `https://data.tidbcloud.com/api/v1beta/apps/{APP_ID}/endpoint`.

>     - Only letters, numbers, and underscores (`_`) are allowed in the path, which must start with a slash (`/`). For example, `/my_endpoint`.

Reviewer 3: The path must be a maximum of 64 characters in length and can contain letters, digits, underscores (_), forward slashes (/) and must start with a forward slash (/)

- **Request Method**: the HTTP method of the endpoint. The following methods are supported:

    - `GET`: use this method to query data, such as a `SELECT` statement.
    - `POST`: use this method to insert data, such as an `INSERT` or `CREATE` statement.

- **Timeout(ms)**: the timeout for the endpoint. The default value is `10000` milliseconds. For more details, see [Configure properties](data-service-manage-endpoint.md#configure-properties).

- **Return Maximum Rows**: the maximum number of rows that the endpoint returns. The default value is `2000` rows. For more details, see [Configure properties](data-service-manage-endpoint.md#configure-properties).

> After configuring properties, click **Save** in the upper right corner or press **Control + S** (or **⌘ + S** on macOS) to save the changes.

Reviewer 3: 改为autosave了，取消了快捷键 control+s
